A 44-year-old female presented with a 3-day history of progressive dyspnea noted upon exertion. 
Increased severity of dyspnea prompted medical consult, and an echocardiography revealed a massive pericardial and bilateral pleural effusions. 
Transthoracic echocardiography likewise showed a very large lobulated mass occupying most of the left atrium, extending into the mouth of the left atrial annulus, pushing the inter-atrial septum towards the right atrium. 
The patient underwent an emergency pericardiocentesis, followed by surgical excision of the mass and mitral valve repair. 
Grossly, the intra-cardiac mass measured 4x2x2 cm and weighed 15 grams. 
Sections revealed bundles of fascicles of spindle-shaped cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm, pleomorphic nuclei, and frequent mitotic figures. 
Giant cells with areas of necrosis were likewise seen. Immunohistochemistries revealed positive for SMA, Caldesmon, and Vimentin; while negative for myoglobin, myogenin, desmin, CD 34, Myo D1, and S100 – compatible with a primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma. 
Ki67 was high at >50%. 
The patient had episodes of atrial fibrillations post-operatively and was treated with anti-coagulants. 
A complete workup was done, and no signs of metastatic disease were present.
She sought to consult at our clinic two months post-op, seeking oncologic consult. 
She was asymptomatic with good functional status. 
Cardiac examination revealed a normal heart rate, regular rhythm, with distinct heart sounds. 
S1 > s2 at the apex, s2>s1 at the base, with no murmurs appreciated. 
Echocardiography revealed a recurrent left atrial mass measuring 1.86 x 1.80 cm, while the rest of the structures were unremarkable. 
A metastatic workup was likewise negative for disseminated disease. 
The patient was not amenable to undergo re-excision of the mass nor receive chemotherapy as advised.
Three months post-op the patient complained of recurrent dyspnea, orthopnea, and easy fatigability. 
Repeat echocardiography revealed an increase in the size of the left atrial mass, this time measuring 3.9 x 3.6 cm at widest diameter. 
Metastatic workup likewise revealed disseminated disease to bilateral lungs and liver. 
Due to cardiac outlet obstruction caused by the progressive tumor burden, the patient succumbed to death. 

Source: http://www.jscholaronline.org/full-text/JCROA/4_203/Primary-Leiomyosarcoma.php