The proband was born to a non-consanguineous couple, who had an unremarkable pregnancy history; however, at birth a large fontanel was reported. Parents and siblings were healthy and no significant family history was reported (Figure 1). The proband met all developmental milestones, except crawling, up to his first epileptic episode, which occurred at three years of age.  After this episode, he lost all speech, began exhibiting autistic behavior, and also started to have frequent generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Over time, tonic, atonic, mild clonic, complex partial, myoclonic and gelastic seizures were reported in the proband.  Other developmental skills, including throwing a ball, responding to his name, feeding himself with utensils and self-care skills were lost by 4-years of age. No significant conductive hearing loss, heart abnormalities or delayed bone age were found in the proband at that age. 

An electroencephalogram (EEG) 2 wk after the onset of severe symptoms revealed severe abnormalities, and the patient was diagnosed with idiopathic epileptic encephalopathy. The EEG showed the presence of frequent independent multifocal, mostly right posterior, epileptogenic abnormalities, consistent with a tendency toward partial onset seizures, and this is indicative of right hemispheric profound cerebral dysfunction. Follow-up EEGs showed multifocal sharp waves. Facial features include a short, upturned nose, full cheeks, a short philtrum, and a horizontal crease on the chin (Fig. 2). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans revealed no significant abnormalities that might contribute to the proband's condition; myelination was determined to be within normal range, and no congenital brain malformations or cytotoxic edema were found to suggest ischemia. The only abnormality found was a small, left periventricular cyst, most likely an incidental germinolytic cyst, which was determined to be unrelated to the proband's clinical presentation. Her physical manifestations include the absence of all mobility and motor coordination, with daily placement in a wheelchair, and the absence of a startle reflex, possibly secondary to neck weakness and poor eye control. The family history is unremarkable.

Medications that the proband is now taking include phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and Charlotte's Web (Hemp extract). The addition of carbamazepine has stopped her loop seizures and prevents her from having seizures as she enters and exits sleep. She has improved awareness, has more eye contact, and is able to shake a rattle.