An 11‐year‐old girl with a history of recurrent episodes of calf pain and difficult walking for the last 3 months sought chiropractic care for pain relief. 
In late January 2018, the child had suffered from fever (38.5°C), headache, coryza, cough, and diarrhea. 
A rapid flu testing at a district hospital led to a diagnosis of influenza B. She was then given oseltamivir (Tamiflu®, an antiviral drug), ibuprofen (a nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drug, NSAID), chlorpheniramine (an antihistamine), bromhexine (an expectorant), and diphenhydramine compound linctus (an antitussive) for 5 days.
Eleven days later, on recovery from the flu symptoms, the child was brought to the emergency department because of nuchal pain, calf pain, and difficulty walking. 
She was then hospitalized (8/Feb‐ 22/Feb) in order to allow medical observation and exclude severe disorders. 
Increased creatine kinase 244 IU/L (CK range: 42‐186) and phosphate 1.78 mmol/L (pediatric range: 0.7‐1.43) were the alterations seen in laboratory tests. 
Serum calcium of 2.37 mmol/L (range: 2.15‐2.55), other routine blood parameters and inflammatory markers were within normal limits. 
Blood cultures were sterile, and PCR for mycoplasma pneumoniae was negative. 
Chest X‐ray and brain and lumbar MRI were observed normal. 
There was no family history of neuromuscular disorder. 
With a provisional diagnosis of benign acute childhood myositis, the patient was given acetaminophen (an analgesic), ibuprofen (a NSAID), magnesium trisilicate (an antacid), and IV fluids. 
Serum CK had returned to 71 IU/L, her myalgia had resolved, and she was discharged from hospital.
After returning home, the child had fainting, slipped and fell sporadically and had involuntary twitching of arms and legs while sleeping. 
Within the next few days, she progressed to catastrophic manifestations of diplopia, occipital headache, and excruciating calf pain, which led to another hospital stay (28/Feb‐ 5/Mar) for further neuropsychological investigation. 
Pain intensity rating was 4‐5/10 for headache and 8/10 for calf myalgia on Numeric Rating Scale (NRS). 
Muscle weakness was subtle in the upper limbs (5‐/5) and mild in the legs (4+/5), according to the Medical Research Council (MRC) scale. 
No common external signs were seen other than occasional involuntary twitching for a minute or two noticed in bilateral brachioradialis muscles and the anterior thighs. 
Findings of electroencephalography/nerve conduction test were normal. 
Psychiatric, neurological, and ophthalmic investigations were generally unremarkable, with the exception of suspected attention deficit disorder by a psychoeducational assessment. 
The patient returned home after having an exclusion of more serious illness and her gait improved. 
She had been placed on ibuprofen (a NSAID), famotidine (an acid control tablet), and topical application of anti‐inflammatory emollients with hydrocortisone acetate cream, heparinoid cream, and calamine cream which provided little relief of symptoms. 
On April 13th, the child was brought to our clinic in a wheelchair by her mother for a holistic approach to pain management. 
Examination showed restricted cervical extension and bilateral rotation. 
Her upper arms, thighs, and calves were tender on palpation and on stretching. 
Muscle power was symmetrical in upper and lower limbs. 
The child also described vague paresthesias in the extremities which were inconsistent with dermatomal manner, more likely resulting from distorted sensory perceptions. 
Cervical radiographs demonstrated reversal of normal lordosis in the lower C‐spine (Figure 1A). 
Prevertebral space measurements: nasopharyngeal space, 3 mm; retropharyngeal space, 3 mm; and retrotracheal space, 10 mm. 

Source: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ccr3.2001